{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'91Summary: Logarithmic Spiral Fit to Atomic Radii\
What the script does, the data it uses, and how well it works\
\
1. Objective\
We\'92re testing the bold idea that atomic covalent radii (r) \'93spiral out\'94 with atomic number (Z) according to a single logarithmic spiral defined by the golden-angle increment\
    \uc0\u916 \u952  = 2\u960 (1 - 1/\u966 ) \u8776  2.39996 rad,  \u966  = (1 + sqrt(5)) / 2.\
In polar form,\
    r(Z) \uc0\u8776  a * exp(b * (\u916 \u952  * Z)),\
so that ln r vs. \uc0\u952  = \u916 \u952  * Z should form a straight line.\
\
2. Data Quality\
- Source & Coverage: Covalent radii for Z = 1 through 88 (H through Ra) pulled from standard chemistry tables.\
- Validity: Values (e.g., H = 0.31 \'c5, C = 0.73 \'c5, Fe = 1.26 \'c5) match textbook references with uniform measurement methods.\
\
3. Methodology\
1. Compute angles: \uc0\u952  = \u916 \u952  * Z\
2. Linear regression: fit ln(r_noisy) = ln(a) + b * \uc0\u952  via np.polyfit\
3. Goodness-of-fit: R\'b2 = 1 - SSR/SST on ln(r)\
4. Diagnostics & visuals:\
   - Polar plot of data vs. fitted spiral\
   - Scatter of ln(r) vs. \uc0\u952  with regression line\
   - Residuals vs. Z to reveal shell structure\
   - Histogram of residuals\
\
4. Key Results\
- Fitted parameters:\
    a \uc0\u8776  0.964,  b \u8776  0.0033,  \u916 \u952  \u8776  2.4000 rad\
  => r \uc0\u8776  0.964 * exp(0.0033 * \u952 )\
- Goodness-of-fit:\
    R\'b2 \uc0\u8776  0.338 (\u8776 34% variance explained by a single spiral)\
- Visuals:\
  \'95 Polar plot: data roughly follow an outward spiral but scatter in \'93bunches.\'94\
  \'95 ln(r) vs. \uc0\u952 : reveals periodic deviations at shell boundaries.\
  \'95 Residuals vs. Z: cluster by electron shell\'97positive at period start, negative at end.\
  \'95 Residual histogram: most between -0.3 and +0.3, a few outliers beyond \'b11.0.\
\
5. Interpretation & Next Steps\
- Proof-of-Concept: There is a rising spiral trend, but a single spiral neglects electron-shell effects.\
- Low R\'b2: shell closures introduce \'93phase-tension\'94 not captured by uniform growth.\
- Improvement path:\
  1. Nested spirals\'97fit separate (a,b) per period.\
  2. Add periodic \'93phase-tension\'94 correction.\
  3. Compare against quantum-mechanical radii models.\
\
6. Conclusion\
The script demonstrates that atomic radii loosely follow a golden-angle spiral. Real physics (electron shells) demands multi-spiral or phase-corrected models. This exercise validates the core hypothesis at first order, highlights its limitations (R\'b2\uc0\u8776 0.34), and lays groundwork for refined \'93Badger\'92s Law\'94 formulations.}